# WhatsApp Forensic Analysis on MacOS

WhatsApp (the application downloaded from the App Store) stores majority of the data (messages, media and even statuses) that it uses in the application locally. <br>
I first encountered this 'goldmine' of data when I accidentally clicked on path location of a PDF document which I had opened directly from WhatsApp rather than downloading it.<br><br>
This data is all stored in '/Users/\[your username\]/Library/GroupContainers/group.net.whatsapp.WhatsApp.shared'. There are several subdirectories in this, of which only certain few are relevant to the data you wish to extract.<br>
There are also directories that are essentially having the same path, just having the last directory name changed, namely: group.net.whatsapp.family, group.net.whatsapp.WhatsApp.private and group.net.whatsapp.WhatsAppSMB.shared. <br>
These don't really contain anything that important (on first glance, back when I initially discovered this directory, hence I haven't looked into these directories much).<br>
For me, these didn't have any data in them (at the time of me writing this part of the article), so I also can't really explore and find out. If anybody has any insight into this, kindly do let me know.<br><br>
The folder of most importance and relevance (IMO) is the first folder mentioned. It has some .sqlite files, some .sqlite-shm files, some .sqlite-wal files, a couple .lock files, a handful .dat files and a .blacklistfile and a .whitelist files (I might have missed a couple files, but I don't think they contain any information of much importance anyways). It also has some subdirectories, of which the most useful ones (IMO) are Message and Media.<br>
From what I have seen, most .sqlite files (with the exception emoji and sticker) have a corresponding .sqlite-shm and .sqlite-wal with the same file name. Even when WhatsApp is not open and no software (because of me accessing the files) is is accessing the .sqlite files, the .sqlite-shm and .sqlite-wal files exist. It remains as mystery as to why they are still existent.<br><br>
Most tables in these files have a column z_pk, where pk stands for primary key. There are a couple tables which do not have z_pk as a field, most of which are the z_metadata, z_modelcache and z_primarykey tables present in the file. They usually contain metadata about the application, model of device the user is using and the primary keys in that file respectively.
